public/posts/2.md, before:

---
title: "Returnal review"
subtitle: "A review of 2021 game returnal"
date: "29.06.2024"
author: "Stanisław Kawulok"
---



### Intro

Hi, this is my second post on my blog, this time I decided it will be a game review, as I warned you in the first post this blog will be chaotic. After two years I finally finished the last act of Returnal yesterday. This text is an attempt to review the game, and to justify hours I spent in it. Returnal is a 2021 roguelike produced by Housemarque studio It was nominated for multiple awards, and won Best action game category. 

### Plot

First I wanted to tell you something about the plot. You play as Selene, a scout for Astra corporation, who investigates a mysterious signal called white shadow that comes from planet Atropos. Despite restrictions, she decides to land on the planet and further investigate, but unfortunately her ship crashes during the approach . Selene survives the crash, and goes to investigate surroundings. Soon she finds the corpse of another Astra scout, by the id on the helmet she realizes it’s her own dead body. Shortly after, she is killed by local fauna and wakes up back in the landing zone. Selene realizes she is trapped inside a time loop that is somehow linked to the White shadow. In order to break the loop she has to find a signal source. The plot contains a lot of analogies to Greek mythology, especially in names of the characters like Selene. Story could be confusing at times, but there are explanations to be found on the internet. When you finally understand the plot you will find how good the story is. 

### Gameplay

Returnal stands out not only because of its nontrivial story, but also because it is the one of a few if not the only AAA roguelike. (Quick explanation for those who never encountered those terms: Roguelike is a game where after dying you lose most of the progress, and AAA game is just a game with a high budget). Returnal stands out as a roguelike because of being a high budget production.


Roguelike is a challenging genre, and Returnal is no exception. By the time I finished the game my playtime was around 74 hours. Experienced players are capable of finishing the game in 20, while others  may struggle to finish the game at all.  Returnal is a game made for patient recipients, dying here is part of learning the game, with every death you will become better at the game until you finish it. After longer runs (they can take up to two hours) I found I needed to take a break from the game for a day or so, but after that I always wanted to try one more time. 

The reason is that the game is extremely enjoyable. Fighting requires constant movement and is challenging. Gameplay itself is fast-paced, compared to slower pace that can be found in other games. Game encourages players to revisit locations, as newly unlocked abilities let them explore areas previously out of reach. 

### Audio and graphics

The visuals in the game are stunning, resembling locations from some horror movies. Ruins look grim, and induce feelings known from movies like Alien. Amount of details only improves it. Music on the other hand is a bit less great, don’t take me wrong it’s good and atmospheric, but you seem to fade in the background. I’m really glad the creators added “Don’t fear the reaper” to the game, which is the best part of the Returnal audio. 

### Verdict
	
Overall, the game is one of the best I’ve ever played and deserves at least 9 out of 10. I highly recommend it to people interested in roguelikes and/or challenging games. I do hope that Housemarque will continue to make games like this.

Commit message:

removing hangman, random word api error

public/posts/2.md, after:

---
title: "Windy out 'ere!"
subtitle: "About my first game jam"
date: "31.10.2024"
author: "Stanisław Kawulok"
---

Hi!

Back in September, one of my colleagues asked me if I wanted to take part in the Brackeys Game Jam - an event where participants create video games in one week. After submission, the games are reviewed by participants and the winner is chosen. 

## Before the storm

In most cases, submissions must follow the Game Jam’s theme, this time the theme was picked by a vote from a list of six options. In order to be as prepared as possible, our team of four met on our Discord server and discussed ideas for every theme. 
Finally, the theme was announced: *”Calm before the storm”*. Thankfully we had a game idea for each option, right? Yes, but we ended up scrapping our first idea - a game where you would have to stay calm and not give way to your negative emotions - and started the brainstorming once again. Instead, we settled on something different - a silly game about the post pigeon trying to retrieve letters it lost when the storm began. 

## The Storm

On day one, we split up the work. My part was to code character movement and obstacle management, as well as to create a repository to store our code. 
Day two, we get to work. I implemented a sketch of the movement system. Later that day, the first problem became clear; each person on the team had a different idea of how our project’s code should be organized. We had file names in both Polish (that’s not me!) and English, some folders contained items that should be separated, and others that were unnecessary. Here, I could have written that the conflict was resolved, but that’s a lie. We were trying to create a game in less than a week during a school year, we weren’t exactly concerned with code aesthetics. It showed me that we could have been better prepared, we could have agreed to one naming convention to make collaboration as effective as possible. 
At least it was working as we all intended - that’s not exactly true either, I’m not talking about bugs, but something more serious - each one of us had a slightly different idea of what our game was supposed to look like. We disagreed on a way to implement objects’ paths (polar curves vs. random movement), graphics (silly paint-like graphics vs. something more serious), and so on.
 After a week we were tired, but ultimately happy because we had a game, our game. It was far from great, but every time I turn on “Windy out ‘ere!” I find myself smiling. Its silliness brings joy, and that’s all that matters. 

## Storm’s aftermath

Despite setbacks, we managed to finish the game in time. We didn’t win or get any significant place, but it was a good learning experience. None of us had significant background in game dev or projects with rapid deadlines, it was a new experience for all of us. The Game Jam taught me how crucial good preparation and cooperation are. Even though a Game Jam lasts a week, you need to start extensive preparations way earlier. 

Want to try our game out? Here is the link to [the submission page](https://itch.io/jam/brackeys-12/rate/2971880)
